Welcome to
BlueprintSpawnableComponent()! In this video we're going to find out how to make our
barrel class actually available as a custom component.
You'll find that right now it isn't, but TankBarrel will become available, using a new annotation.
And then, on that TankBarrel we are going to set some parameters, Max
Degrees Per Second, how fast it can move, and how high and how low it can move,
so that the barrel doesn't collide with the tank as we move it up and down. So see you in there!
So I know there seems to be a lot of hurdles to getting this
tank barrel working but they're wonderfully informative hurdles. We've got another big one for you
in this video. So, we want to just add a private property here,
and that is an (EditAnywhere) so that
we can edit some properties of the barrel. Let's just make the variable, that's just going to be called float, the
first one for the moment. MaxDegrees per
second. Putting a sensible default in, = 20; and I'll just
label that as a "// Sensible default", as
that's what it is. OK, so anyway, we have
made ourselves a UPROPERTY. We would like to be able to set a default degrees per second, when a designer
puts a new barrel in the game. They can obviously modify that, but where are they going to edit it?
Well, let's compile our code, and then, have a think about where you'd see
it. It's not going to be on the tank barrel fbx, because that is a static mesh.
Where it's going to be is inside the Tank blueprint. We
have a barrel, but this barrel is not the one. In fact, our very blueprint's not
compiling right. Now look, we get a warning, and the warning, if we try and compile
is it's having the same problem with tank barrels and static references,
meshes rather. This SetBarrelReference method
now wants an actual tank barrel, whereas what we've got here
is a static mesh. We got it from over here and it's a static
mesh component. So the question comes, how do we swap this
guy out from being a (Static Mesh Component) Barrel
to being an actual class based thing? Well,
that's interesting question. If we try and add a component, look let's go down to the
custom section. What have we got? The only thing we've got at the moment that we've
created is Tank Aiming; we have not got our tank barrel. So if we
look at our classes, over in the Content Outliner, the C++
BattleTank, we have TankAimingComponent there!
Is available because it's a component, but TankBarrel is also
a component, it's a StaticMeshComponent rather than an actor
component but it is not by default available to this blueprint. We
can't add it. So our mission here is to make sure that TankBarrel appears
in the Custom section, here near TankAiming. So how do we do that?
Well, let's go look at the TankAimingComponent!
And you see it, by the way, you notice how Unreal in the list under
Custom here in the blueprint, it's taken away the word component which is pretty cool,
and it's also
picked up this forward declaration comment. So, let's go look at the
code for the TankAimingComponent. It's picked up forward declaration here,
because it's the first thing before the class. So, what I'm going to do is must move forward
declaration here, and I can make use of the fact I know that it's  now
going to read this comment here, just to introduce the class. So, we can say,
"// Holds parameters
for barrel's"...
Well, holds barrel's properties, basically.
..."and Elevate method". Maybe that's
too specific because this'll go out of date, but what I want to show you is, if we compile that,
that the comment will come across...
...
here when we get to Custom and our
TankAiming. It says HOTRELOADED, so
maybe  that's just saying that you need to reload it down again.
"Holds barrel's properties and
Elevate method". OK, so you've learned a couple of things there as an aside, which is that you want to put
your annotation, that's going to come in the
hover-over, right here. But look, what we're really interested in is that the TankAimingComponent
has this annotation in front of it. Let's compare that to TankBarrel.
It has UCLASS() nothing. This guy has UCLASS, and then, ClassGroup=
(Custom), meta=(BlueprintSpawnable
Component) ). Ah, now that's interesting! So, let's take that stuff and
stick it in the front of the TankBarrel. In fact, let's get rid of the (ClassGroup=
(Custom), for the moment, and see if it works with just UCLASS (Blueprint
SpawnableComponent)). What I'm hoping is going to happen, when we compile this, is
it's thing going to allow us to actually add a TankBarrel type here
under our Custom components. It may pop into this list,
when the compile finishes. It may moan about HOTRELOAD. Let's see when this
list is populated. Here you go!
Tank Barrel, we now have a Tank Barrel available. Let's add it!
Put it where the other barrel is, name it...
Well actually, I'll leave it for the moment but misspelled is fine as long
as I can differentiate the two. Let's go pick a static mesh.
Compare it to the other barrel for a minute, just flick back and
forth. OK, that's cool! And the only thing that's different, look is Tank Barrel,
Max Degrees Per Second. So, rather than Tank
Barrel being the category, we probably want that to be something like setup.
And what's happened is that this annotation has allowed us to add it to the blueprint, so let's delete
the old Barrel now. Just remove the component.
Get this one named properly.
Fantastic! Now, that's named right! Now we can
bring in a reference to what is now, if we hover over it, a
actual tank Barrel type. Bring that into Barrel to set
and compile and we should be getting on much better. Let me just
recompile all the code, because that way our Barrel, when we
go into it, will have instead of it saying
Tank Barrel it's section down here, by adding in the code this category called
setup, this will move into a Setup section,
which is now here. Setup Max Degrees Per Second there, with that sensible
default. Isn't that cool?! So, that is where we're going to be able to put our
details. Now, you might ask yourself, do you want a designer to be able to
actually change things like Physics Properties and Collision Properties on this?
Well, you can hide these properties, if you want to, on
the Barrel. So for example, say we want to hide Collision properties,
this is how you do it. Right up here where we said (meta = (Blueprint
SpawnableComponent)) we can say another keyword that I'm going to show you, which is hide
categories =
and then you give that end brackets. So we need two closed brackets,
a string which is ("Collision")) there
which is the name of this category. Now, let's try recompiling
and see what happens to the Collision category! So, what we're going to do here
is strip down anything that having available in the blueprint
could make the designer break the interaction. So, I'm just using Collision as an example
for now, and you see that now we still have,
under Barrel, Setup, but we don't have Collision anymore.
That's pretty cool right! So you can customize, like that, by hiding
categories. So there's loads of details there about how (BlueprintSpawnableComponent) works!
What I want to do, to finish this video, is to just get the rest of these UPROPERTIES laid
out, and I want you to do that, it's going to be a really simple challenge for you.
So, I want you to add the remaining properties. Add a maximum and a minimum
elevation in degrees, as well as the Maximum Degrees Per Second that we've
already got sitting there. Give sensible defaults in C++. Check
and see how high and low the barrel can go, especially when facing backwards, without hitting the tank,
and then, as I said, prevent self collision and make sure that all those
properties also come through to the blueprint. So go ahead, add the remaining properties we're going to need for the
barrel now, and I'll see you in a moment.
OK welcome back! So let's just
copy this guy. I'm going to get rid of the word "// Sensible default", it was just a suggestion for you guys.
OK, I'm going to get a couple of these down now. So, we need
a MaxElevation
Degrees, is what I'm going to call mine, and I don't know how
many that needs to be yet, so I shall say 0
and 0. I'll find out in Blueprint
and then I'll come and set it over here in the C++. So, I'm
going to set these sensible defaults, and then, we have Min
ElevationDegrees here as well. I don't really know what
those Max and Min are going to be. In fact, I'll probably find out,
pretty easily, by just going to the Tank, Viewport. So, the reason
the Barrel is on the floor is, the Parent Socket needs to be set to be set to the Barrel Socket on the Turret, and
the location of the Barrel needs to be reset. Great! So now the Barrel is in the
right place again. Let's have a look at some sensible defaults. I'm going to rotate
it around 180 degrees and, or 170. 180 is better!
Oh no, not that! Not the Barrel rotated 180 degrees, of course,
but the Turret. How silly of me. So how low can
you go, Mr. Barrel? Well, you can go to 0!
You're not going to be able to go any lower than 0, you're going to hit the back of the tank, and if you are facing forward...
Again I'm rotating the wrong thing, make sure you rotate
the Turret here in the Viewport of the blueprint. Grab the barrel, now
let's see how high it can go without looking stupid.
Maybe 40 degrees in a real push. So, I'm going to say between 0
and 40 degrees, as my sensible default. Now, the designer can tweak those further,
but that's what I'm just going to start with. So, let's go put that in the C++!
MaxElevation 40, MinElevation 0,
and get rid of those // TODOs! You say, why do I bother with the TODOs? Just because I was going to move away from the code,
I want to make sure I don't forget to do that. If you ever think I musn't forget too,
do something about it right there and then. Put a TODO in, don't leave a
I must do hanging around, because you won't do what you must do
I'm pretty sure. [Laughs] OK, let's compile away, and take a look
at the Tank blueprint here and this Barrel component. What we're hoping is, under the Setup
section, we'll get two new parameters come in, and then, we are done for this video!
It disappeared off the screen but there you go, Max Degrees Per Second, Max Elevation,
Min Elevation in degrees, all very clear! Let's compile the blueprint! That worked!
I'm going to save everything here and close. I'm going to close
VisualStudio, just to be sure, and then, I am going to make
a commit over here in the source control, using the name of
the current video, which is the way I always do that. But I'll leave that off screen, because that'll
bore you. So see you soon!